240 DRAKE’S FAMOUS VOYAGE

thought not good to make any stand, till such time as they
were within the shot of the city, where they might be ready
upon the return of Captain Sampson, to make a sudden at-
tempt, if cause did require, before it were dark.

Captain Sampson returned with his message in this sort 3-
First, touching peace or wars, the governor said he knew of
no wars and that it lay not in him to make any, he being] so
mean a subject as he was. And as for the stay of the
merchants with their yoods, it was the kiny's pleasure, but
not with intent to endamaye any man. And that the kiny’s
counter-commandment was (which had been received in that
place some seven-night before) that Enqlislz merclzants with
their yoods should be discharyed. For the more verifying
where0f‚ he sent such merchants as were in the town of our
nation, who trafficked those parts; which being at large de-
clared to our General by them, counsel was taken what might
best be done. And for that the night approached, it was
thought needful to land our forces, which was done in the
shutting up of the day; and having quartered ourselves to our
most advantage, with sufficient guard upon every strait, we
thought to rest ourselves for that night there. The Governor
sent us some refreshing, as bread‚ wine, oil, apples, grapeS‚
marmalade and such like. About midnight the weather
began to overcast, insomuch that it was thought meeter to
repair aboard, than to make any longer abode on land. And
before we could recover the fleet a great tempest arose,
which caused many of our ships to drive from their anchor-
hold, and some were forced to sea in great peril, as the bark
Talbot, the bark Hawkins, and the Speedwell; which speed-
well only was driven into Engkmd, the others recovered
us again. The extremity of the storm lasted three days-3
which no sooner began to assuage, but Master Carlile, our
Lieutenant-General‚ was sent with his own ship and three
others, as also with the galley and with divers pinnaces‚ to
“ see what he might do above Viyo, where he took many boats
and some carvels, diversely laden with things of small value,
but chiefly with household stuff, running into the high coun-
try. And amongst the rest he found one boat laden with the
principal church stuff of the high church of Viyo, where also
was their great cross of silver, of very fair embossed work.

