166 SIR FRANCIS DRAKE

out of danger of their shot from the land, commanding his
other pinnace to be brought ahead of him, and to let fall
their grapners each ahead the other, environed both the
pinnaces with bonnets, as for a close sight, and then wheaved
[waved] them aboard him.

They kept themselves upon their oars at caliver-shot dis-
tance, spending powder apace; as we did some two or three
hours. We had only one of our men wounded in that fight.
What they had is unknown to ας, but we saw their pinnaces
shot through in divers places, and the powder of one of
thern took fire; whereupon we weighed, intending to bear
room to overrun them: which they perceiving, and thinking
that we would have boarded them, rowed away amain to
the defence they had in the wood, the rather because they
were disappointed of their help that they expected from the
frigate3 which was warping towards uS‚ but by reason of
the much wind that blew, could not come to offend us or
succour them.

Thus seeing that we were still molested, and no hope
remained of any purchase to be had in this place any longer;
because we were now so notably made known in those parts,
and because our victuals grew scant: as soon as the weather
waxed somewhat better (the wind continuing always west-
erly, so that we could not return to our ships) our Captain
thought best to go (3rd November) to the Eastward, towards
Rio Grande [Magdalena] long the coast, where we had been
before, and found great store of victuals.

But when after two days' sailing‚ we were arrived (5th
November) at the villages of store, where before we had
furnished ourselves with abundance of hens, sheep, calves,
hogs, &c.; now we found bare nothing, not so much as any
people left: for that they, by the Spaniards’ commandment8‚
had fied to the mountains, and had driven away all their
cattle, that we might not be relieved by them. Herewith
being very sorry, because much of our victuals in our pin-
naces was spoilt by the foul weather at sea and rains in
harbour. A {rigate being descried at sea revived us, and put
us in some hope for the time, that in her we should find
sufficient; and thereupon it may easily be guessed, how much
we laboured to recover her: but when we had boarded her,

