GERMANY 100

For their drink, they draw a liquor from barley or other
grain ; and ferment the same, so. as to make it resemble wine.
Nay, they who dwell upon the bank of the Rhine deal in
wine. Their food is very simple; wild fruit, fresh venison,
or coagulated milk. They banish hunger without formality,
without curious dressing and curious fare. In extinguishing
thirst‚ they use not equal temperance. If you will but hu-
mour their excess in drinking, and supply them with as much
as they covet‚ it will be no less easy to vanquish them by
vices than by arms.

Of public diversions they have but one sort, and in all
their meetings the same is still exhibited. Young men, such
as make it their pastime‚ fling themselves naked and dance
amongst sharp swords and the deadly points of javelins.
From habit they acquire their skill, and from their skill a
graeeful manner ; yet from hence draw no gain or hire:
though this adventurous gaiety has its reward, namely, that
of pleasing the spectatorS. What is marvellous, playing at
dice is one of their most serious employments; and even
sober, they are gamesters: nay, so desperately do they ven-
ture upon the chance of winning or losing, that when their
whole substance is played away, they stake their liberty and
their persons upon one and the last throw. The loser goes
calmly into voluntary bondage. However younger he be,
however stronger, he tarnely suffers himself to be bound and
sold by the winner. Such is their perseverance in an evil
course: they themselves call it honour.

Slaves of this class, they exchange away in commerce, to
free themselves too from the shame of such a victory. Of
their other slaves they make not such use as we do of ours,
by distributing amongst them the several offices and employ-
ments of the family. Each of them has a dwelling of his
own, each a household to govern. His lord uses him like a
tenant, and obliges hirn to pay a quantity of grain, or of
cattle, or of eloth. Thus far only the subserviency of the
slave extends. All the other duties in a family, not the
slaves, but the wives and children discharge. To inflict
stripes upon a slave, or to put him in chains, or to doom
him to severe labour, are things rarely seen. To kill thern
they sometimes are wont‚ not through correction or govern-

