118 TACITUS

antiquity is confirmed by religious mysteries. 'At a stated
time os the year, all the several people descended from the
same stock, assemble by their deputies in a wood; conse-
crated by the idolatries of their forefathers, and by super-
stitious awe in times of old. There by publicly sacrificing
a man, they begin the horrible solemnity of their barbarous
worship. To this grove another sort of reverence is also
paid. No one enters it otherwise than bound with ligatures,
thence professing his subordination and meanness, and the
power of the Deity there. If he fall down, he is not per-
mitted to rise or be raised, but grovels along upon the
ground. And of all their superstition, this is the drift and
tendency; that from this place the nation drew their orig·
inal‚ that here God, the supreme Governor of the world,
resides, and that all things else whatsoever are subject to
him and bound to obey him. The potent condition of the
Semnones has inereased their influence and authority, as
they inhabit an hundred towns; and from the largeness of
their community it comes, that they hold themselves for the
head of the SuevianS.

What on the contrary ennobles the Langobards is the
smallness of their number, for that they, who are sur-
rounded with very many and very powerful nations, derive
their security from no obsequiousnezs or plying; but from
the dint of battle and adventurous deeds. There follow in
order the Reudignians, and Aviones, and Angles, and Var-
inians, and Eudoses, and Suardones and Nuithones; all de-
fended by rivers or forests. Nor in one os· these nations
does aught remarkable occur, only that they universally join
in the worship of Herthum; that is to say, the Mother
Earth. Her they believe to interpose in the affairs of men,
and to visit countries. In an island of the ocean stands the
wood Castum.- in it is a chariot dedicated to the Goddess‚
covered over with a curtain, and permitted to be touched
by none but the Priest. Whenever the Goddess enters
this her holy vehicle, he perceives hei-3 and with profound
veneration attends the motion of the chari0t‚ which is always
drawn by yoked cows. Then it is that days of rejoicing
always ensue, and in all places whatsoever which she de-
scends to honour with a visit and her company, feasts and

