EGYPT 83

to contend. Such was the suggestion made by the Egyptians
to the Eleians.

When Psammis had been king of Egypt for only six
years and had made an expedition to Ethiopia and imme-
diately afterwards had ended his life, Apries the son of
Psammis received the kingdom in succession. This man
came to be the most prosperous of all the kings up to that
time except only his forefather Psammetich053 and he
reigned five-and-twenty years, during which he led an army
against Sidon and fought a sea-fight with the king of Tyre.
Since however it was tated that evil should come upon him,
it came by occasion of a matter which Ι shall relate at
greater length in the Libyan history, and at present but
shortly. Apries having sent a great expedition against the
Kyrenians, met with correspondingly great disaster; and the
Egyptians considering him to blame for this revolted from
him, supposing that Apries had with forethought sent them
out to evident calamity, in order (as they said) that there
might be a slaughter of them, and he might the more
securely rule over the other Egyptians. Being indignant
at this, both these men who had returned from the expedition
and also the friends of those who had perished made revolt
openly. Hearing this Apries sent to them Amasis, to cause
them to cease by persuasion; and when he had come and was
secking to restrain the Egyptians, as he was speaking and
telling them not to do so, one of the Egyptians stood up
behind him and put a helmet upon his head, saying as he did
so that he put it on to crown him king. And to him this
that was done was in some degree not unwelcome, as he
proved by his behaviour; for as soon as the revolted
Egyptians had set him up as king, he prepared to march
against Apries: and Apries hearing this sent to Amasis one
of the Egyptians who were about his own person, a man of
reputation‚ whose name was Patarbemis, enjoining him to
bring Amasis alive into his presence. When this Patarbemis
came and summoned Amasis, the latter, who happened to be
sitting on horseback‚ lifted up his leg and behaved in an
unseemly manner, bidding him take that back to Apries.
Nevertheless, they say, Patarbemis made demand of him that
he should go to the king, seeing that the king had sent to

